---
layout: post
date: 2021-07-11 23:59 +0530
tags: kde dev cpp kmymoney
title: GSoC 2021 KMyMoney - Week 3, 4 and 5
---

# {{page.title}}
<br>

The plan for the Week 3 and Week 4 was to complete the following tasks:

* Write unit tests for the debug support.
* Work on the Online Quote support :
    * Use the member functions of AlkOnlineQuote class and AlkOnlineQuoteSource class.
    * Start the work on the “update of online quote support” feature.

Week 5 was more into replacing the WebPriceQuote usage in KMyMoney and figuring out what APIs are needed in libalkimia.
<br>
I noticed that the online quotes that were in kmymoneyrc weren't visible in the Online Quotes dialog. I figured out that and used the kmymoney profiles only. As also further pointed by Ralf, the onlinequoteseditor (in libalkimia) is intended to support multiple applications and therefore adds multiple profiles.
<br>
As unit tests were already written in libalkmia I run all the tests to check if something were wrong. All the tests passed successfully.
<br>
I started replacing WebPriceQuote implementation with that of Alkimia one by one. I managed to do so with the help of API documentation and previous KMyMoney 4.8 implementation. I found that some of the implementations were not present in libalkimia :
<br>
* AlkOnlineQuote::csvquote() as opposed to WebPriceQuote::csvquote()
<br>
For this Ralf pointed out that it uses the type MyMoneyStatement as the second parameter only known by kmymoney and therefore cannot be added to alkimia and Thomas suggested I move over it as the whole CSV import is needed to be reworked and is currently out of the scope of GSoC project.
<br>
* I also tried to implement AlkOnlineQuote::setDate() I got a reference error which was due to m_fromDate and m_toDate in WebPriceQuote are only used in connection with CSV downloads and Thomas said me to skip that.
<br>
* Thomas said me to add two more members to AlkOnlineQuoteSource::Private: , m_idNumber (QString) and m_idSelector (enum). For that, I implemented the m_idNumber in private and the idSelector enum in public since it was to be used in the getter and setter function outside private.
<br>
Alkimia build was successful. I am also working in the modifications in AlkOnlineQuoteSource constructors with these new members and its tests.
<br>
My work can be found here : [Alkimia](https://invent.kde.org/surajsloth/alkimia/-/tree/gsoc21) and [KMyMoney](https://invent.kde.org/surajsloth/kmymoney/-/tree/gsoc21).

## Learnings - 
My object-oriented concepts improved and I learned how to implement and modify tests.

## What's next - 
Phase 1 ended and there are now evaluations. The initial part of my project started slow since I was taking time to get acquainted more with the codebase. It is great to have such helpful mentors who help me with my queries as early as possible. I have planned to put on more time in my project as required. Work for the next work involves replacing the left WebPriceQuote APIs.
<br>
If anyone wants to suggest something or have a discussion please reach out to me on suraj[dot]mahto49[at]gmail[dot]com or @suraj_sloth:kde.org in matrix.
